It's OK.
So applying this now to a job listing and you guys can literally just type it in like I did.
And so I think it's always a good idea to literally just put it in like that because then what I can
do is if I if I forget what I'm supposed to be writing I can just go oh hey look.
Next section is called Why next section is called How next section is called specifics.
In the next section is called perks and you can literally just write underneath these letters.
I would remove the headers because it looks ridiculous but this is a good rough guide especially for
you out there who have never done this before.
This is a template that works very very effectively.
I wish more people did it because they'd get a lot more bids and they get better people.
But if you follow this this is how we honestly.
Every time we post the job we get anywhere from like 30 to 60 people where other people get five to
10.
OK.
So let's just kind of role play a little bit.
Let's imagine you are building that dating iOS app that's native.
What would we say in the what we would say.
And honestly don't worry about we versus I versus us it doesn't really matter.
So I'm just going to make this up as they go OK.
So here is a good one description.
We don't need to give them too much detail just again a fly over a description of what it is.
I'm just making this up on the fly.
We are looking to build an iOS app for dating in the United States.
The app will be tailored for the 30 to 40 year old group range.
I just put that for you know giggles.
I don't think that 30 to 40 year old groups are going to be using Aiwass.
This probably isn't going to be a great project but I do want to say 20 to 30 year olds because I'm
just quite literally imitating other applications.
The app will operate in many ways like a cross between tender and those who do not know what that is
I put a link.
And Coffee Meets Bagel again put a link that's always helpful if someone knows what it is.
Great if they don't put the link so they can go and look for it.
The more time they spend researching this and looking into it the better.
It also gives the contractors an opportunity to say hey I looked at this Web site and then you know
hey there they're actually interested in doing some outside research.
They're taking a little more initiative.
And I said all the matching investment we've done for the phone and automatically connects you to location
based singles in your area.
All very very very generic.
When you build your own app whatever anything you're getting done you obviously will give a little bit
more detail it wouldn't be nearly as generic as this but that is sufficient for the what.
So now will move on to the why now I'm going to keep this very simple.
I'm only going to limit this to maybe one or two sentences.
So I put down two sentences for the Y and do a little bit more you can do a little bit less just don't
go crazy with it.
I just I'm just making this up.
This absolutely makes no sense but we've noticed that there are limited options for dating when you're
between 30 to 40 the age range is increase this age range is increasingly using smartphones and have
been using tender feeling out of place as they should Tinder is kind of like an orgy on your phone.
So that's the reason why I put this is because again we want people to feel some kind of a connection
to it.
They need to understand that there is a pain point we're addressing.
Typically if you don't add the y it's hard to connect to the project.
I put you know there's limited options for dating when you're between 30 and 40.
Hopefully what I'm looking for is someone who might be in the 30 to 40 range and has connected with
this problem before.
So one of the best things you can do is have someone who's actually trying to build something they would
use that's going to make them much more interested in it's going to be easier to get them to do over
time.
It's just a much much more fluid relationship.
And in the rest of it I just kind of gave some market justification saying there are a lot of them using
smartphones but they can't use these other things that are cater to the twentieth 30 year olds whatever.
OK so now the how.
Now remember the how is not very specific.
We're going to deal with actual documentation later.
We have an entire section on it.
The how is really I'm just going to give a basic kind of description.
So as they're reading it they can understand what's involved.
What does a user see.
They can start to mentally prepare for how big this project is.
Now what the how.
Honestly I would just describe everything you can't get but don't go crazy you don't need to explain
the color of the buttons.
You just need to explain these are the main functions.
These are the main points of the application.
OK.
And so I just kind of threw this down.
It's kind of like a fat paragraph which is roughly what I think you should shoot for what I said here
is I am imagining that I'm picking up the app and I'm downloading it logging in and using the primary
functions of the app.
So I'm just describing verbally what happens now if you're building a small application this is easy
to do if you're building a large one then you might want to paint with broader strokes and you might
want to describe more things at once.
So what I said was users log into a splash page and see an option for Facebook log and splash page for
those of you who don't know what that word phrase means.
That's when you open up your application and the first screen that you get kind of introduced to the
app that's the splash page it's technically what you land on.
You can also call it a landing page.
I've heard other terms for it as well but that's where it just pops up and says name of application.
Sign up or read our terms and agreements.
So they're going to see an option for Facebook logon.
Now then I specified no other log in options at this time.
That's important because you know if you have multiple ways of log in say you can log in with linked
and Facebook and e-mail that is significantly more complicated than just logging in with Facebook.
That's a lot more work for the developer.
And so I don't want them to think that there are multiple ways of logging in.
I like to be specific in that sense I like to show them that this is simple.
So after logging in the answer questionnaire that has 25 questions and it's three pages long all questions
are to 10 radio buttons.
So now here is what I'm kind of envisioning is that you see a page and it asks you questions you know
do you hate cats do you love dogs.
How much alone time do you need.
How desperate are you.
Things like that.
And they answer all of those.
And then I would explain as I say these are 1 to 10 radio buttons.
Now again radio button is those buttons where say you have multiple options and you can only select
one.
It's not a dropdown.
So when you click those buttons that have there are just tiny circular buttons that you select.
So it would have a 1 through 10 and they'd have to answer based on that rating scale.
Now the reasons why I said All questions are like this is because that again reduces the complexity
of the application saving that into a database is very simple versus say if I said you know there's
four or five different question types we have long form where you have short answer dropdown boxes combo
boxes and radio buttons.
So I simplified it and I always suggest people start with the simplest version of re-application as
possible but of course it's up to you.
If I had multiple ways be answering questions I would have explained that as well after they answer
these questions they're invited to write a short one to two sentence description of themselves and finish
their profile.
Now there's a lot more detail I could put into that I can say how many characters it is I could say
whether or not there's key words I could say what the problem is.
I could say what exactly they do to finish the profile but this is honestly the description of the post.
So we don't need to get that specific.
That's in the documentation section.
After this they will be presented with a homescreen with two options.
So I'm just explaining to them the process flow 1 C or matches for the day two to four matches per day.
And to change your profile information and upload photographs so that is the way I see this it's just
very very basic.
You you click one button and it shows you matches and you click another button and you can change your
information.
Now I did not elaborate.
What happens after you see your matches.
That's something that probably I should elaborate on.
And if you're building something like that make sure that you don't leave out that chunk of information.
But at this point they probably know that that section is missing so they're going to go to your documentation
section and read more about it.
The matching system is simple and based off a 100 point system which is elaborated on the attached documentation.
Now whenever you put something that's like a matching system or you click a button and the system finds
you this you need to elaborate.
How that's done.
You don't need to say in the description.
Here is my algorithm for how it matches people.
All I can say is it's a simple system.
You want it you know and it's a point system.
That's a very easy way of describing it to them.
If you didn't describe how the algorithm works there's going to be a big question mark in the person's
head thing themselves.
How big is this.
How complicated is this.
How often does the algorithm have to update.
Does the algorithm have to update itself etc. etc..
I'm saying no it's very simple.
OK.
Moving on to specs now and specs we're just going to focus on the specific requirements of the application.
Here's where the odds and ends but that you would put But these are the things that are very very specific
to the application.
It won't work without it.
And so I kind of just heard this out.
This is all just theoretical.
These are all just made up information I said app should be a native application.
Explain this in a previous lecture native application means native application means that it's an app
on your iPhone you click it and it opens up a screen that is made for that app it's not opening up a
screen that leads you to actually their Web site and the web site does not look like the mobile application
this is built entirely separate from the Web site.
So that's what I said that's something specific.
Now if someone if I didn't put that they'd think who can be a hybrid app like oh is it just a Web site
that's mobile friendly.
No it's a native application.
I said I want to integrate SML tools into the application so must be familiar Tulio or some similar
service because you're not familiar with Twilio Toyo is a service that allows you to send text messages
and have robots make phone calls and such and such.
They're very easy to use and they're very helpful and they make it such that building S.M. ass functionality
and your application is very easy.
But this is just theoretical right.
Like I could've just said I want to integrate SML tools into this application so you must be familiar
with knowing how to do that.
You don't need to be specific you just to tell them what the end product you want is you don't need
to know all of this.
You also don't need to know all this jargon.
You just need to be able to convey to the person this is what you want and then I said this is always
something you should always address.
I said I will provide designs.
You have to slice and place the images again.
You don't have to be this specific.
I do this because I run a web studio so I know these things.
But you could say I will provide the designs and that's it.
And they'll be able to figure it out from there that you're going to send them designs.
It's helpful to tell them what format you're going to send them to designs and but this is helpful because
what this means is when I say provide designs that means I have the designs done I'll give them to you
but I don't have someone who has taken the image and cut them up for use.
No one's taken it and created buttons out of this design.
I just have one big photoshop file.
Again you don't need to know that.
You can just say it as plain as possible.
They'll understand you just want to get that across.
OK last thing perks perks I'm just going to elaborate on what I put up at the top.
All right.
So here I just literally went oh down the line and elaborated.
So repeat work.
Now generally what that means is.
So what I said is if this is built well have many more features that I would want to add to it.
I also have another mobile application idea I'd love to start a long term developer relationship.
This could mean a lot of different things if you work for a company you could say we have other projects
and we're looking for developers that we can trust.
You could say Yeah I mean if the if the application is successful will expand it.
You can say that we have other projects that we're posting right now that will shortlist you for things
like that those are very very attractive to developers or contractors.
And then I said I will pay hourly and I like to start as soon as possible.
Now hourly if you want to get technical what you can call that is time and materials but time and materials
means that I'm willing to explain it very quickly because the later we have a full lecture on this because
it's a very important thing time in materials means that whatever they build you're going to pay them
for how long it takes them and not what they built.
So if it takes them five times as long to build it as they originally thought it doesn't matter you're
paying them for how long it took.
Same thing goes that if it takes them half as much time they're getting paid for that much people.
Contractors like that.
That's what they generally like.
They don't like to only get paid when something works well or comes out correctly because a lot of times
it's not entirely their fault if it's delivered late or if something doesn't work.
So they know that regardless of what happens they're going to get paid for their time which is what
they want to get paid for.
The other thing I just said is I'd like to start as soon as possible.
This is a larger application.
So I would not suggest ever doing that but since you put at the top I just showed you how to handle
it.
I just put the please message me with your availability.
Now that's important because if you're trying to start right now you want someone who's immediately
responsive.
I don't want someone who's going to bid and then check in two days later.
I want someone who's going to bid and say hey I can start now.
That's obviously important.
At the very end what you would do is you put some kind of directives I'm not going to cover that right
now because later we're going to talk about that in depth because that deserves an entirely new lecture.
Directives are very helpful.
This is an example of a directive so message me with your availability.
What that basically means is that if someone responds and they don't tell you your availability they
did not read the entire description.
Probably not a detail oriented person probably a little too busy so that's a negative score against
them helps you kind of predetermine who you want to work with.
OK so this was a sample run.
Later in the course I'm going to run through another example of making a a job description.
If you think you've gotten it you can skip over it.
I think it's just helpful to watch me just go through and post these because honestly I've posted probably
probably 300 job or application or contractor postings over the last four to five years so I know kind
of how it works.
I know what works for us and I know generally what are the best practices.
If you want some more practice with it there is another lecture coming up but otherwise I will see you
guys in the next lecture where we cover the rest of the posting where we cover things like down here.
What are the thought processes behind the category of work specific skills are really arrangements things
like that so see in the next lecture.